Question 1
What is the correct way to open a file named data.txt for reading in Python?

open('data.txt', 'w')
open('data.txt', 'a')
open('data.txt', 'ra')
open('data.txt', 'r')


Question 2
Which command in Python's os module is used to remove a directory?
os.remove()
os.mkdir()
os.delete()
os.rmdir()


Question 3
In Python, what is the main purpose of using the 'self' keyword within a class method?
To initialize static variables within the class.
To define class-level variables shared among all instances.
To access instance variables and methods of the class.
To override inherited methods from parent classes.


Question 4
What is the role of directories in organizing files and subdirectories on a computer system?
Directories are used for converting files and subdirectories.
Directories organize files and subdirectories, helping manage and locate them.
Directories are used for applying security settings to files.
Directories are used for encrypting files and subdirectories.

  
Question 5
Which Python module is used to create directories?
sys
json
math
os

  
Question 6
What is the advantage of using readlines() in Python when handling file data?
It closes the file automatically after reading all lines.
It provides faster processing of file data.
It reads the entire file as a single string for quick processing.
It allows easy access to all lines as a list for further processing.

  
Question 7
Which type of file is typically used for storing audio and image data, offering advantages in compression and compatibility?
Compressed text files
Textual files
Binary files
Compressed image files

  
Question 8
Which of the following file modes in Python allows for appending data to an existing file?
r
x
a
w

  
Question 9
Why is it important to use exception handling in Python programming?
It serves as a warning to the programmer about potential issues.
It manages runtime errors, ensures code execution, and prevents program crashes.
It logs potential errors for future reference.
It tracks errors during program execution.

  
Question 10
What Python function is used to read a single line from an open text file?
readlines()
readfile()
read()
readline()

  
Question 11
In Python, when dealing with errors, what is the main advantage of using the except block?
It finalizes the execution of code regardless of errors.
It is used to wrap critical code that must always execute.
It ensures the code is free from syntax errors.
It allows the programmer to handle specific exceptions.

  
Question 12
What is operator overloading in Python, and how is it used to customize class behavior?
Defining custom behaviors for operators within a class.
Replacing all operators in a class with functions.
Creating new operators for a class.
Using operators to access elements in a list.

  
Question 13
What function from the os module in Python can be used to rename a folder?
os.rename()
os.chdir()
os.mkdir()
os.rmdir()

  
Question 14
How does polymorphism benefit object-oriented programming in Python?

It restricts access to class variables, ensuring data security.
It provides a mechanism to overload operators for custom behaviors.
It allows objects to be treated as instances of their parent class, enabling flexible and dynamic code.
It enables multiple inheritance, allowing a class to inherit from multiple parent classes.

  
Question 15
What is the primary purpose of the try block in Python's exception handling?

To catch exceptions that occur during program execution.
To handle exceptions raised by the code.
To finalize the code execution.
To enclose code that might raise an exception during execution.

  
Question 16
Which of the following best describes polymorphism in the context of Python?
 
The ability of different classes to provide their specific implementations of methods.
The requirement for all classes to share identical methods and attributes.
The limitation of classes to use only inherited methods without changes.
The strict enforcement of a single method implementation across all classes.

  
Question 17
You are tasked with creating a new directory in Python using the os module. Which of the following commands will achieve this?
os.mkdir('new_directory')
os.remove('new_directory')
os.rmdir('new_directory')
os.rename('new_directory')


  
Question 18
Why is the 'self' keyword important when defining class variables in Python?
It is used to create local variables within a method.
It is used to reference instance variables within methods of a class.
It is used to initialize a class without any instance variables.
It is used to define global variables accessible from anywhere.

  
Question 19
What does encapsulation mean in object-oriented programming (OOP)?

Sharing all data across all classes and their instances.
Exposing all class components without restrictions.
Restricting access to certain components of a class and exposing a limited interface.
Allowing direct access to all class variables.

  

Question 20
How does inheritance enhance program functionality in Python?
By copying data from one class to another without any method sharing.
By merging several classes into one without sharing methods.
By preventing classes from accessing methods of other classes.
By allowing new classes to inherit attributes and methods from existing classes.
